Well now that I've got that camera in the scene that will help me keep an eye on the frame as I work
here.
But I kind of need more screen real estate to continue working.
So I'm going to join this window back up like that.
And I think for now what I'm going to do is change my outliner to a 3-D view maybe hit the zero key
on the numpad to change it to that camera view.
If I look at the reference image of course this particular shot or this particular environment is a
lot smaller than the one I'm working on but I like the idea of this kind of tomb sarcophagus.
I don't exactly know what it is but I like the idea of this thing in the room.
And I also like the idea of stairs as well.
So they going to work on those two things.
But within the context of our larger room here.
So for the stairs I think I'm going to put them back here on the right side of the room so I'll begin
that with a cube and I'll move that back over here some.
It certainly needs to be a lot bigger so I'll go ahead and scale it up and scale it in the X and as
you can see I get the sense that these are pretty wide stairs a large staircase coming down into the
environment here.
Let me see I think I'm going to need quite a few edge loops so I'm going to go ahead and insert an edge
loop here and I'm going to scroll the mouse wheel until I get to kind of the number of steps I think
I need.
I've got seven cuts on that now maybe make that 8.
Let's see how this works.
So now if I go to face mode and I'm going with my circle select I'm going to click and drag these for
each step I'm going to drag an extrusion out.
So if I hit it easy and drag out there's a one step maybe and then I'm going to de-select the top one
the drag out de-select the top et cetera et cetera.
All right.
So there's my stairs.
Move them back something like this.
So if I hit the zero key over here you can see kind of how it's looking.
And then I'll just tumble back out of that camera view.
I think I want to shrink it down just a bit.
I think they're a little too big.
Maybe even flatten them a bit.
So once again I can hit the zero key and frame that up.
Something like that.
So you just get a sense that there's more going on outside the frame.
To work on the two more crypt thing there I'm going to go to a new layer and work on it here.
I think I'm going to go ahead and turn this back into the outliner for now.
So for this crypt here it looks like it's just made of a lot of individual blocks and it's kind of angled
in kind of like a pyramid.
So I'll just try and keep those things in mind as I go.
I will go ahead and begin with the cube and the first thing I'm going to do here is delete the bottom
face.
Now I know that may seem weird right now but as we get to things like U-V mapping this is going to be
pretty useful when we can.
In instances like this it's going to be a lot easier if we can delete one face of an object like this
to make our lives easier when we use the map.
So keep that in mind for the future.
All right I'm going to zoom in here and try and get the block about the way it should be.
I'm thinking something like this and I'm going to press the seven key press the 5 key on the numpad
and maybe go to wireframe here.
I'm going to go ahead and open the properties panel with the End key just so I can begin to set this
up.
I'm thinking let's try this let's go with negative 2.5 in the y here and then I'm going to press shift
D and duplicate it and bring it up here to positive 2.5 just to get a uniform with for our crypt and
then select both of these and press shift D and then click and then drag these new duplicates to one
side here shifty again move these over shifty again.
And I think I want five.
Here I'll put these here.
OK.
Now I'm not looking to make this perfectly aligned because this is a tomb it's been decaying over time.
I'm not too concerned that it looks perfectly aligned and uniform.
All right so now that I've got that.
I'll take one of these and duplicate it and all rotate it 90 degrees around the Z and I'll hit the G
key and place that here.
And I'll duplicate it and move it right over here too.
So I've got those duplicate these and move them straight over here.
All right.
So now we have the base of this crypt or tomb.
So I'm going to duplicate these four and move them up.
Let me go back to my one key here and orthographic with five key and I'll just place that there.
And then the reason why I only grabbed these is because I want to select this one and I want to move
this face and some like this and then I want to duplicate this and move it over here.
So I'm beginning to get that angle in and then I want to take all of these and slide them into it like
that and I'll do it again.
So I'm a take these three or four I should say duplicate move up slide intimate and maybe grab this
one and move it in
and then put that over on the other side as well.
So I'll take these three duplicate moves them up and then slide them over and for this actually maybe
I'll do something a little different I'll just take these and move them out.
Now I'm going to go to my top view with my seven key orthographic view with my five key on the numpad
press the Z key and I'm going to duplicate this and move it over here.
So and then do the same for the next row etc..
And so I'll take one of these.
Duplicate it looks like we could move it up here and scale it in a bit and that should fit there.
And as I said this is not meant to be perfectly aligned.
This is something that has been decaying and is old and worn out.
And looks like we need one more right up here.
Just slide that in there and then we just need to duplicate these for the other side as well.
All right.
So there is our tomb slash crypt type thing.
Let's go ahead and select everything and press control Jay to make it all one object and then let's
go to a side view here maybe the one key the five and the Z key and let's move this up.
So it's sitting on the grid here.
I'm just going to move this up to this point right about here and then I'll move the origin of the object
to the 3D cursor which is sitting at the center of the grid.
And so now now we can move that around slide it around on the floor with pivot point there at the grid.
So let's bring everything back and see what we need to do here.
So there's our crypt thing thinking it's a little big.
So I'm going to go and scale it down some maybe like that.
And let's take a look at it through the camera.
I'm going to press the zero on the pad and I'm going to move this back over here somewhere like this.
So it's in the scene and as I said the camera may be moving forward but it's over here as part of the
scene.
Well let's now see if we can't create some sort of a hole in the ceiling for this guy to come down into
the scene.
I'm going to switch this back to my 3-D view here.
And right up in here I think this piece right up in here needs to be broken.
And when he had a hole in the ceiling.
So let's see if we can make that happen here.
I'm going to select this beam here and just take this face and I'm going to move it in to about where
I would think the hole should be.
Maybe something like that.
I'm going to zoom in with the period key so maybe I'm thinking right and there's the hole.
So if that's where the hole in the ceiling is going to go.
Let's take a look at this polygon playing up here that is the ceiling.
If I hit the tab key and look at it there's not much here.
It's just all one polygon we're going to need more geometry more resolution to this to be able to cut
a hole into it.
So what I'll do is while it's still in edit mode I'll press the W key.
And that brings up the specials menu and what we can do here is we can choose subdivide and that will
subdivide the mesh into multiple polygons So click that.
And down here in the subdivide panel we've got number of cuts and right now we're just dealing with
one right down the center of the polygon.
But if I begin increasing the number of cuts here you can see it increases the number of polygons so
I'm going to start increasing this.
So now if we look at this area we can begin thinking about how we want to block this out so let's just
say I'm going to remove these faces.
And now we can see up through there.
Now I'd like to be kind of a jagged hole in the ceiling here.
So I think I'll go back to edit mode and press the W key and subdivide again and see what I get.
All right that gives me a little bit more to work with when I go to Virtex mode and I'm just going to
begin moving these around to get kind of the beginnings of a hole here.
Let's just see what I can come up with.
First before I add any more geometry Maybe I'll make this a little bit wider here.
And we go something like that.
So now I've got kind of this ragged hole in the ceiling.
I also wanted to have some thickness to it so I'll go back to edit mode and go to face mode and select
everything and I'll go ahead and hit me and click and then I'm going to drag up in the z axis and then
give me some thickness here to that whole.
And that's what I need.
Maybe I could get it a little more ragged by differentiating the tops and the bottoms here.
I like this all right.
Let's take a look at that see what that does for us.
Yeah that's beginning to give us a nice sense of a hole in the ceiling kind of thing.